INFO: VB 6.0 Readme Part 7: Error Message Issues
The information in this article applies to:
Microsoft Visual Basic Learning Edition for Windows 6.0
Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition for Windows 6.0
Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition for Windows 6.0

This article was previously published under Q170158 
SUMMARY
The information below includes the documentation and workarounds for Visual Basic 6.0. This information can also be found in the README.htm file that ships with Visual Basic 6.0 on the Visual Basic 6.0 CD-ROM. Please see the REFERENCES section of this article for a list of the Microsoft Knowledge Base articles relating to the Visual Basic 6.0 readme. 

Following is a list of all parts of the readme file: 

Part 1. Important Issues - Please Read First!
Part 2. Data Access Issues and DataBinding Tips
Part 3. Control Issues
Part 4. Language Issues
Part 5. Samples Issues
Part 6. Wizard Issues
Part 7. Error Message Issues
Part 8. WebClass Designer Issues
Part 9. DHTML Page Designer Issues
Part 10. Extensibility issues
Part 11. Miscellaneous Issues
Part 12. Microsoft Transaction Server (MTS) Issues
Part 13. Dictionary Object
Part 14. Visual Component Manager
Part 15. Application Performance Manager 
MORE INFORMATION
No Help Topic for the Following Error Messages
There are currently no Help topics for the following error messages: 

"Object module needs to implement '<name>' for interface '<classname>'." 
An interface is a collection of unimplemented procedure prototypes. This error occurs when you specified an interface in an Implements statement, but you failed to add code for all the procedures in the interface. 

You must write code for all procedures specified in the interface. An empty procedure containing only a comment is sufficient. 

For additional information, select the item in question and press F1. 

"Private Enum types and Enum types defined in standard modules or private classes cannot be used in public object modules as parameters or return types for public procedures, as public data members, or as fields of public user defined types." 
This error occurs when you attempt to use an Enum type (or private Enum type) as: 

A parameter for a public object module 
A return type for a public procedure 
A public data member 
Fields of public user-defined types 
Avoid using Enum or private Enum types in these circumstances. 

"Can't ReDim, Erase, or assign to Variant that contains array whose element is With object." 
This error occurs when you attempt to ReDim, Erase, or assign to a Variant a variable whose element is a With object. For example, the following code will produce this error: 

   Type Test
      Name as Integer
   End Type

   Sub Main()
      Dim c(0) As Test
      Dim e
      e = c
      With e(0)
         ReDim e(1)
      End With
   End Sub

